Included is real physiological data from eighteen pilots who were subjected to various events.  
This data was used in a Kaggle competition and the training set was comprised of the benchmark 
data for the subjects and the models wwere evaluated with the Line Oriented Flight Training (LOFT) data.  

The benchmark data (files ending in “_CA”, “_DA”, and “_SS”) were collected in a non-flight 
environment outside of a flight simulator. The LOFT simulation consists of a full flight 
(take off, flight and landing) in a flight simulator.  

The events which the subjects experienced were each intended to induce one of the following three 
cognitive states: Channelized Attention (CA); Diverted Attention (DA); and Startle/Surprise (SS).  
•	Channelized Attention is, roughly speaking, the state of being focused on one task to the 
exclusion of all others.  This is induced in benchmarking by having the subjects play an engaging 
puzzle-based video game.
•	Diverted Attention is the state of having one’s attention diverted by actions or thought 
processes associated with a decision.  This is induced by having the subjects perform a display 
monitoring task.  Periodically a math problem showed up which had to be solved before returning to 
the monitoring task.
•	Startle/Surprise is induced by having the subjects watch movie clips with jump scares.
 
During the LOFT simulation, certain events took place designed to induce cognitive states.  There were 
two separate events designed to induce SS, two to induce CA, and at least two to induce DA.

Benchmarks were collected in the morning and LOFTs were in the afternoon.  Each experiment is saved in 
its own .csv file where a column is a specific measurement, time, or event marker and a row is a full 
sample with measurements from each sensor associated with a timestamp.

Crews are pairs of subjects, so the i-th crew consists of subject 2i-1 and subject 2i.  The odd numbered 
subjects were in the left seat and the evens in the right.  For example, the 7th crew consists of subjects 
13 and 14.

The benchmark files are named by subject number and one of CA, DA, or SS.  The LOFT files are named by 
subject number and LOFT.  For example, subject 5’s DA benchmark file is 5_DA.csv and their LOFT data file 
is 5_Loft.csv.

Each sensor operated at a sample rate of 256 Hz.  

Please note that since this is physiological data from real people, there will be noise and artifacts in the data.

Data Fields:
------------
TimeSecs – Time from the start of the readings in seconds.

EEG_FP1, EEG_F7, EEG_F8, EEG_T4, EEG_T6, EEG_T5, EEG_T3, EEG_FP2, EEG_O1, EEG_P3, EEG_Pz, EEG_F3, EEG_Fz, 
EEG_F4, EEG_C4, EEG_P4, EEG_POz, EEG_C3, EEG_Cz, EEG_O2 – Various electro-encephalogram (EEG) sensor readings.  
The alphanumeric codes after the underscore represent positions on the subject’s head per sensor design.  
Data were collected with the B-Alert X24 EEG system.

ECG – 3-point Electrocardiogram signal.  The sensor had a resolution/bit of .012215 µV and a range of 
-100mV to +100mV.

R – Respiration, a measure of the rise and fall of the chest. The sensor had a resolution/bit of 
.2384186 µV and a range of -2.0V to +2.0V.

GSR – Galvanic Skin Response, a measure of electrodermal activity.  The sensor had a resolution/bit of 
.2384186 µV and a range of -2.0V to +2.0V.

Data for ECG, R, and GSR was collected with the NeXus-10 system.

Event – 0: No event
1: Subject is in the SS state
2: Subject is in the CA state
3: There should be no 3s.  If there are, treat them as 0s.
4: There should be no 4s.  If there are, treat them as 0s.
5: Subject is in the DA state
